# Contributing

Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., status check, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

Make sure you have at least Node.js v16:

```sh
node -v

v16.0.0
```

This repo runs with Yarn v1, please install make sure to install it, since all other steps will assume
that you have this dependency installed.

```sh
npm install -g yarn@1
```

### Setup the repo

Start by [forking the repo](https://github.com/microsoft/fluentui-contrib). Then clone your fork and
install dependencies.

```sh
git clone git clone git@github.com:<your-user>/fluentui-contrib.git
cd fluentui-contrib
yarn
```

Add the main repo as a git remote so you can pull/rebase your fork with our latest updates:

```sh
git remote add upstream git@github.com:microsoft/fluentui-contrib.git
```

## Creating a new package

You can create a new package by running the following commands

```sh
# Scaffolds a new folder in the packages/ directory with autogenerated package files
yarn nx generate library <name>

# Configures storybook for the package
yarn nx generate configure-storybook <name>

# Scaffolds a new component with sample implementation and example documentation
yarn nx generate component <name> <componentName>

# Starts the storybook for you new package and component
yarn nx storybook <name>
```

### Contract

Contribution packages enable Fluent UI contributors and other Microsoft partners
use Fluent UI to create rich experiences that build on the design system, without
the requirements of the design system getting in the way. We give the initiative
to contributors to ship their packages with an API and support structure that makes
sense to them.

There are however a few housekeeping requirements that we impose on contribution packages:

- README authoring - please author the README.md file for your package to be helpful to users
- Documentation - each package should have documentation examples powered by Storybook
- Issues - be a responsible maintainer and address user issues for your package

Other than the basic housekeeping requirements, the contribution package sandbox for developers
to build on. The Fluent UI team is happy to work with contributors if they need help and
guidance.

## Common commands

This repository runs as a [NX integrated monorepo](https://nx.dev/tutorials/integrated-repo-tutorial). We have configured common commands
across all packages that is the baseline to be able to:

- develop
- test
- document
- build
- publish

all packages in the repo. All commands can be run from the root of the monorepo for any package. There should be no need to move
around package folders to run commands.

### storybook

Starts storybook for a package

```sh
yarn nx storybook <name>
```

### test

Runs unit tests using [jest](https://jestjs.io/)

```sh
yarn nx test <name>
```

### build

Builds source code with es6 and common-js formats in the `dist/` folder in the monorepo root.

```sh
yarn nx build <name>
```

### type-check

Checks typescript usage and generates type files in the `dist/` folder in the monorepo root.

```sh
yarn nx type-check <name>
```
